README.md, before:

# Ruthenium
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/my-cloud/ruthenium?logo=github)](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/releases)
[![Build](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/my-cloud/ruthenium/build.yml?logo=github)](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/actions?query=workflow%3ABuild+event%3Apush+branch%3Amain)

![Ruthenium coin](doc/coin.png)

## Description
[![Doc](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-wiki-blue?logo=github)](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/wiki)
[![Doc](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-whitepaper-blue?logo=github)](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/wiki/Whitepaper)

Golang implementation of the Ruthenium protocol.

You will find a detailed description of the project in the [wiki](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/wiki/Home). To understand the motivations behind the creation of this blockchain, you can peruse the comprehensive details outlined in the Ruthenium [whitepaper](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/wiki/Whitepaper). 

## Quickstart
There are two ways to run a Ruthenium node. You can either use your own build from [sources](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/releases) (Option A) or use a docker image provided in the [repository packages](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/pkgs/container/ruthenium) (Option B).

### Prerequisites
* Option A (using sources):
  * You need to have [![Go](https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/my-cloud/ruthenium?logo=go)](https://go.dev/dl/) installed.
  * If you are using Windows, you need to have [tdm-gcc](https://jmeubank.github.io/tdm-gcc/) installed.
* Option B (using docker image):
  * You need to have [![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-grey?logo=docker)](https://www.docker.com/) installed.
* Your firewall port 10600 must be open (please read "Program arguments" section of the [node](src/node/README.md#program-arguments) and [UI server](src/ui/README.md#program-arguments) documentation if you want to use another port than 10600).
* To get an income or validate blocks ou need to be registered in the [Proof of Humanity](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/wiki/Whitepaper#proof-of-humanity) registry.

### Installation
* Option A (using sources):
  * Download the sources archive:
    ```
    https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/releases/latest
    ```
* Option B (using docker image):
  * Pull the image:
    ```
    sudo docker pull ghcr.io/my-cloud/ruthenium:latest
    ```

### Launch
* Option A (using sources):
  * Extract files from the sources archive
  * At root level (ruthenium folder), run the [node](src/node/README.md):
    ```
    go run src/node/main.go -private-key=<private key>
    ```
  * At root level (ruthenium folder), run the [UI server](src/ui/README.md):
    ```
    go run src/ui/main.go -host-ip=<your external IP address>
    ```
* Option B (using docker image):
  * Run the [node](src/node/README.md):
    ```
    sudo docker run -p 10600:10600 -ti ghcr.io/my-cloud/ruthenium:latest \app\node -private-key=<private key>
    ```
  * Run the [UI server](src/ui/README.md):
    ```
    sudo docker run -p 8080:8080 -ti ghcr.io/my-cloud/ruthenium:latest \app\ui -host-ip=<your external IP address>
    ```
* Using a web browser, go to:
  * http://localhost:8080

## APIs
* [host node API](src/node/README.md#api)
* [UI server API](src/ui/README.md#api)

## Contributing
[![Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/my-cloud/ruthenium?logo=github)](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/fork)
[![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/my-cloud/ruthenium?logo=github)](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium)

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are greatly appreciated.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please do not hesitate to [report a new bug](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&template=bug_report.md&title=) or [request a new feature](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/issues/new?assignees=&labels=enhancement&template=feature_request.md&title=). Of course, you are welcome to fork the repository and create a pull request. In any case, please let's take a look at the [contributing](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) file.

⭐ Don't forget to give the project a [star](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/exploring-projects-on-github/saving-repositories-with-stars)! Thanks again!

## Contact
Founder: [Jérémy Pansier](https://github.com/JeremyPansier) - jpansier@my-cloud.me

Repository: https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium

## Authors and Acknowledgments
[![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/my-cloud/ruthenium?logo=github)](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/graphs/contributors)

Special thanks to [Gwenall Pansier](https://github.com/Gwenall) who contributed since the early developments.

For a [tutorial to create a first blockchain in Go][1], thanks to [Yuko Sakai][2] & [Jun Sakai][3].

## License
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/my-cloud/ruthenium?label=⚖&nbsp;license)](LICENSE)

![license.png](doc/license.png)

## Project status
[![Commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/my-cloud/ruthenium?logo=github)](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/commits/main)

[![Maintainability](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=my-cloud_ruthenium&metric=sqale_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/component_measures?id=my-cloud_ruthenium&metric=sqale_rating)
[![Security](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=my-cloud_ruthenium&metric=security_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/component_measures?id=my-cloud_ruthenium&metric=security_rating)
[![Reliability](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=my-cloud_ruthenium&metric=reliability_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/component_measures?id=my-cloud_ruthenium&metric=reliability_rating)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/sonar/coverage/my-cloud_ruthenium/main?logo=sonarcloud&server=https%3A%2F%2Fsonarcloud.io)](https://sonarcloud.io/component_measures?id=my-cloud_ruthenium&metric=coverage)

The main principles have been implemented.

Now it needs a lot of refactoring and tests to improve maintainability and
reliability.

[1]: https://www.udemy.com/course/golang-how-to-build-a-blockchain-in-go/ "Udemy tutorial to build a blockchain in Go"
[2]: https://www.udemy.com/user/myeigoworld/ "Yuko Sakai LinkedIn profile"
[3]: https://udemy.com/user/jun-sakai/ "Jun Sakai LinkedIn profile"

Commit message:

feat(node): redefine endpoint routes and improve decoupling (#238)
BREAKING CHANGE: Node and UI server APIs have changed.
1. Node
* Added:
  - "Get first block timestamp" endpoint for route: /first-block-timestamp
* Removed:
  - "Get block" endpoint
* Modified:
  - All request and response data structures have changed, see node/README.md
  - "Get blocks" endpoint route is now: /blocks
  - "Share targets" endpoint route is now: /targets
  - "Add transaction" endpoint route is now: /transaction
  - "Get transactions" endpoint route is now: /transactions
  - "Get UTXOs" endpoint route is now: /utxos
2. UI server
* Modified:
  - All request and response data structures have changed, see ui/README.md

README.md, after:

# Ruthenium
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/my-cloud/ruthenium?logo=github)](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/releases)
[![Build](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/my-cloud/ruthenium/build.yml?logo=github)](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/actions?query=workflow%3ABuild+event%3Apush+branch%3Amain)

![Ruthenium coin](doc/coin.png)

## Description
[![Doc](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-wiki-blue?logo=github)](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/wiki)
[![Doc](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-whitepaper-blue?logo=github)](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/wiki/Whitepaper)

Golang implementation of the Ruthenium protocol.

You will find a detailed description of the project in the [wiki](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/wiki/Home). To understand the motivations behind the creation of this blockchain, you can peruse the comprehensive details outlined in the Ruthenium [whitepaper](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/wiki/Whitepaper). 

## Quickstart
There are two ways to run a Ruthenium node. You can either use your own build from [sources](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/releases) (Option A) or use a docker image provided in the [repository packages](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/pkgs/container/ruthenium) (Option B).

### Prerequisites
* Option A (using sources):
  * You need to have [![Go](https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/my-cloud/ruthenium?logo=go)](https://go.dev/dl/) installed.
  * If you are using Windows, you need to have [tdm-gcc](https://jmeubank.github.io/tdm-gcc/) installed.
* Option B (using docker image):
  * You need to have [![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-grey?logo=docker)](https://www.docker.com/) installed.
* Your firewall port 10600 must be open (please read "Program arguments" section of the [node](src/node/README.md#program-arguments) and [UI server](src/ui/README.md#program-arguments) documentation if you want to use another port than 10600).
* To get an income or validate blocks ou need to be registered in the [Proof of Humanity](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/wiki/Whitepaper#proof-of-humanity) registry.

### Installation
* Option A (using sources):
  * Download the sources archive:
    ```
    https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/releases/latest
    ```
* Option B (using docker image):
  * Pull the image:
    ```
    sudo docker pull ghcr.io/my-cloud/ruthenium:latest
    ```

### Launch
* Option A (using sources):
  * Extract files from the sources archive
  * At root level (ruthenium folder), run the [node](src/node/README.md):
    ```
    go run src/node/main.go -private-key=<private key>
    ```
  * At root level (ruthenium folder), run the [UI server](src/ui/README.md):
    ```
    go run src/ui/main.go -host-ip=<your external IP address>
    ```
* Option B (using docker image):
  * Run the [node](src/node/README.md):
    ```
    sudo docker run -p 10600:10600 -ti ghcr.io/my-cloud/ruthenium:latest \app\node -private-key=<private key>
    ```
  * Run the [UI server](src/ui/README.md):
    ```
    sudo docker run -p 8080:8080 -ti ghcr.io/my-cloud/ruthenium:latest \app\ui -host-ip=<your external IP address>
    ```
* Using a web browser, go to:
  * http://localhost:8080

## APIs
* [host node API](src/node/README.md#api)
* [UI server API](src/ui/README.md#api)

## Contributing
[![Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/my-cloud/ruthenium?logo=github)](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/fork)
[![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/my-cloud/ruthenium?logo=github)](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium)

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are greatly appreciated.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please do not hesitate to [report a new bug](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&template=bug_report.md&title=) or [request a new feature](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/issues/new?assignees=&labels=enhancement&template=feature_request.md&title=). Of course, you are welcome to fork the repository and create a pull request. In any case, please let's take a look at the [contributing](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) file.

⭐ Don't forget to give the project a [star](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/exploring-projects-on-github/saving-repositories-with-stars)! Thanks again!

## Contact
Founder: [Jérémy Pansier](https://github.com/JeremyPansier) - jpansier@my-cloud.me

Repository: https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium

## Authors and Acknowledgments
[![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/my-cloud/ruthenium?logo=github)](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/graphs/contributors)

Special thanks to [Gwenall Pansier](https://github.com/Gwenall) who contributed since the early developments.

For a [tutorial to create a first blockchain in Go][1], thanks to [Yuko Sakai][2] & [Jun Sakai][3].

## License
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/my-cloud/ruthenium?label=⚖&nbsp;license)](LICENSE)

![license.png](doc/license.png)

## Project status
[![Commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/my-cloud/ruthenium?logo=github)](https://github.com/my-cloud/ruthenium/commits/main)

[![Maintainability](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=my-cloud_ruthenium&metric=sqale_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/component_measures?id=my-cloud_ruthenium&metric=sqale_rating)
[![Security](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=my-cloud_ruthenium&metric=security_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/component_measures?id=my-cloud_ruthenium&metric=security_rating)
[![Reliability](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=my-cloud_ruthenium&metric=reliability_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/component_measures?id=my-cloud_ruthenium&metric=reliability_rating)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/sonar/coverage/my-cloud_ruthenium/main?logo=sonarcloud&server=https%3A%2F%2Fsonarcloud.io)](https://sonarcloud.io/component_measures?id=my-cloud_ruthenium&metric=coverage)

While the main principles have been implemented, there is still a substantial amount of refactoring and test implementation remaining.

[1]: https://www.udemy.com/course/golang-how-to-build-a-blockchain-in-go/ "Udemy tutorial to build a blockchain in Go"
[2]: https://www.udemy.com/user/myeigoworld/ "Yuko Sakai LinkedIn profile"
[3]: https://udemy.com/user/jun-sakai/ "Jun Sakai LinkedIn profile"
